# Concourse Genesis Kit Manual

The *Concourse Genesis Kit* deploys a Concourse CI/CD system under BOSH using Genesis v2.6.0 or later.  It supports the following features and parameteters:

## Base Functionality

The basic working-out-of-the-box functionality of the Concourse Genesis Kit is handled by the following parameter collections.  Anything that is required is handled by the `genesis new` console wizard, while the rest have sane internal defaults that can be manually overridden by specifying the parameters in your environment YAML file.

### Cloud Configuration and Scaling Parameters

The following parameters cover your cloud configuration selections for deployment, and your vertical and horizontal scaling concerns.

- `concourse_network` - The name of the network you wish to use as specified in your cloud config.  Defaults to `concourse`.
- `concourse_vm_type` - The name of the vm type to be used for all the non-worker vms (web, haproxy, db).  Defaults to `small`.
- `worker_vm_type` - The name of the vm type to be used by the concourse worker.  This typically needs more memory and diskspace than the rest of the concourse vms, and is recommended that it provides at least 8GB of RAM and 60GB of disk.  Defaults to `concourse-worker`
- `workers` - This is the number of worker instances you want to have. Defaults to `3`
- `availability_zones` - List of availability zone names. By default, we recommend deploying across three availability zones `[z1, z2 and z3]`  for any instance groups that have multiple vms (workers, possibly web).  However some systems don't have multiple availability zones or you may want to restrict or expand your availabilty zones manually.

### Stemcell Parameters

This is kit is tested with Ubuntu 14.04 "Trusty" stemcells and we recommend against changing this from the default value.  However, you can change this with the following parameters.

- `stemcell_os` - Name of the stemcell os as defined in clound config.  Defaults to `ubuntu-trusty`.
- `stemcell_version` - By default, this is set to `latest`, but if you need to lock to a specific version of the stemcell, set this value.

### Network Proxy Parameters

- `http_proxy` - The address for the HTTP traffic proxy.  By default, there is no proxy.
- `https_proxy` - The address for the HTTPS traffic proxy.  By default, there is no proxy.
- `no_proxy` - The list of addresses that are not proxied through the above proxies.  Each address must be specified; this does not accept CIDR representation.  This has no effect if the `http_proxy` and/or `https_proxy` are not set.  Default is `[127.0.0.1, localhost]`

### Other Parameters

* `volume_driver` - Specify Concourse's volume driver, defaults to `detect`. If you're planning to change this, you should already know what value you should use and why, otherwise, don't touch this.

## Available Features

### Full vs. Worker-only Deployments

Concourse can either be deployed as a full deployment (feature: `full`) or as a worker-only (feature: `worker`) deploment as a satellite to another full host deployment.

You will need at least one full deployment for a Concourse setup.  This will provide the HAProxy load balancer in front of one or more web nodes that house the web user interface and the API endpoint for the `fly` CLI as well as the control system that schedules jobs to the workers.  It will also provide the database for Concourse and one set of workers (typically 3, but this is configurable.)

You may also need to have one or more worker-only deployments that tie into the full deployment.  This allows you to have workers within a partitioned network so that the workers can perform tasks that are only permitted within that network, such as deployments.  These workers are allowed to call out to
the scheduler on the host web node to request jobs and submit results.  Jobs are managed for these separate worker clusters by associating the pipeline and the workers with tags to route the jobs to the required workers.

*Note*: as you would expect, you cannot specify both `full` and `workers` features.

### Full Deployment Parameters

The following parameters are available when deploying a Concourse
deployment with the `full` feature.

#### Basic Configuration Parameters

- `external_domain` - The full domain (or IP address) of the Concourse haproxy vm.  This parameter is **required** and is prompted for in the `genesis new` wizard. 
- `external_url` - This is the full url, including schema, for the Concourse web user interface.  By default it is the external\_domain over https.
- `main_user` - The name of the user in the `main` team to log in as for the Web user interface and `fly`.  Defaults to `concourse`.

The following secrets will be pulled from the vault:

- **Basic Authentication Pasword** - the password used by the Web user interface and `fly`, generated by Genesis and stored in `secret/$env/concourse/webui:password`

#### Cloud Configuration and Scaling Parameters

- `haproxy_vm_type` - The `vm_type` to use for haproxy VMs, if you are deploying those.  Defaults to whatever `concourse_vm_type` has been set to.
- `web_vm_type` - The `vm_type` to use for web (TSA / ATC) nodes.  Defaults to whatever  concourse_vm_type` has been set to.
- `num_web_nodes` - Number of web nodes, typically 1, but can be up to 5.
- `db_vm_type` - The `vm_type` to use for the database node.  Defaults to whatever `concourse_vm_type` has been set to.
- `concourse_disk_type` - Persistent disk type used by the Concourse DB VM.

### Worker-only Deployment Parameters

The following parameters are used when deploying a Concourse environment with the `workers` feature.

- `tsa_host_env` - The Genesis deployment environment name that will act as host to this worker-only deployment.  Note that this host environment must have been deployed by using Genesis v2.6 or later, and using v2.0.0 of this kit.

- `tags` - A list of tags to associate with this worker pool.  Tags are used to displatch tagged pipeline jobs to the appropriate pool of workers.  If you're using Genesis generated deployment pipelines, this should work without modification: By default, it will be a single tag matching the environment name.  If you want no tags, specify `tags` as an empty list. 

  *Note*: tags cannot contain spaces in their name.

### Authentication

By default, the web user interface and the fly CLI command authenticate using a single basic authentication username/password on the **main** team.  However there are several other authentication features for the **main** team, which are selectable using the `genesis new` console wizard.

#### GitHub OAuth Integration Parameters

The `github-oauth` feature allows you to specify a GitHub.com organization for which any member can log into Concourse.  

The following parameters are used when using the GitHub OAuth Authentication:

- `authz_allowed_orgs` - The name of the organization in Github authorized to use Concourse.  For legacy reasons, it retains a pluralization of its name, but only allows a single organization due to changes in Concourse.  **Required**

The following secrets will be pulled from the vault:

- **OAUTH Provider Key** - One half of the key/secret provided by GitHub to authenticate using OAuth.  It is stored in the vault under `secret/$env/concourse/oauth:provider_key`
- **OAUTH Provider Key** - The other half of the key/secret provided by GitHub to authenticate using OAuth.  It is stored in the vault under `secret/$env/concourse/oauth:client_secret

#### GitHub Enterprise OAuth Integration Parameters

The `github-enterprise-oauth` feature provides the same functionality as the GitHub OAuth integration, but for an on-prem GitHub Enterprise system.

The following parameters are used when using the GitHub Enterprise OAuth Authentication:

- `github_api_uri` - The API URL for the GitHub Enterprise server that is used for OAuth.  For example: `https://github.example.com/api/v3/`  **Required**
- `github_token_uri` - The URL of the token API for the GitHub Enterprise server used for OAuth.  For example:  `https://github.example.com/login/oauth/access_token` **Required**
- `github_auth_url` - The URL of the Auth API for the GitHub Enterprise server used for OAuth.  For example:  `https://github.example.com/login/oauth/authorize` **Required**
- `authz_allowed_orgs` - The name of the organization in Github authorized to use Concourse.  For legacy reasons, it retains a pluralization of its name, but only allows a single organization due to changes in Concourse.  **Required**

The following secrets will be pulled from the vault:

- **OAUTH Provider Key** - One half of the key/secret provided by GitHub to authenticate using OAuth.  It is stored in the vault under `secret/$env/concourse/oauth:provider_key`
- **OAUTH Provide Secret** - The other half of the key/secret provided by GitHub to
  authenticate using OAuth.  It is stored in the vault under
  `secret/$env/concourse/oauth:client_secret

#### CF UAA OAuth Integration Parameters

The `cf-oauth` fature allows you to use your Cloud Foundry UAA as the authentication source for
accessing Concourse.

The following parameters are used when using the Cloud Foundry UAA OAuth
Authentication:

- `cf_api_uri` - The API URL for the iCloud Foundry whose UAA will be used for authentication.  For example: `https://api.system.bosh-lite.com`  **Required**
- `cf_token_uri` - The URL of the token API for the UAA used for OAuth.  For example: `https://login.system.bosh-lite.com/oauth/token`  **Required**
- `github_auth_url` - The URL of the Auth API for the UAA used for OAuth.  For example: `https://login.system.bosh-lite.com/oauth/authorize`  **Required**
- `cf_spaces` - A list of CF space GUIDs whose developers can access Concourse.  **Required**
- `cf_ca_cert_vault_path` - The Vault path that contains ca for the Cloud Foundry.  **Required**

The following secrets will be pulled from the vault:

- **OAUTH Provider Key** - One half of the key/secret provided by UAA to authenticate using OAuth.  It is stored in the vault under `secret/$env/concourse/oauth:provider_key`
- **OAUTH Provider Key** - The other half of the key/secret provided by UAA to authenticate using OAuth.  It is stored in the vault under `secret/$env/concourse/oauth:client_secret

### TLS Certificate

Concourse web and `fly` urls run over HTTPS by default, and as such, needs an SSL certificate and key.

If you have a CA-signed certificate for the external domain you specified for this Concourse deployment, you can use the `provided-cert` feature to store it in the vault to be used by the deployment.

The following secrets will be pulled from the vault:

- The certificate and the key are stored in `secret/$env/concourse/ssl/server:certficate` and `secret/$env/concourse/ssl/server:key` respectively.  If you use the `genesis new` console wizard, you will be prompted for the both the key and the certificate.

Alternatively, if you don't have your own certificate, Genesis can generate a self-signed certificate using the  `self-signed-cert` feature.  Using this feature will require your to add an exception on your browser when asked, and use the `--skip-ssl-validation` option when logging in with `fly` if you do this manually instead of using the `login` addon (see below)

## Cloud Config

By default, this kit uses the following VM types/networks/disk pools from your
Cloud Config. Feel free to override them in your environment, if you would
rather they use entities already existing in your Cloud Foundry:

```
params:
  concourse_network:   concourse
  concourse_disk_pool: concourse # should be at least 10GB (used for the concourse DB)
  concourse_vm_type:   small # VMs should have at least 2 CPUs, and 4GB of memory
  worker_vm_type:      concourse-worker # VMs should have 8GB of memory and 60GB of disk.
```



## Available Add-ons

* `visit` - Opens the Concourse Web user interface in your browser (requires
  macOS)

* `download-fly` - Downloads the version of the `fly` cli compatible with the
  deployed version of Concourse.  With no argumements will place the `fly`
  executable in your current directory.  Supports the following arguments:

  `<path>`: instead of placing the executable in the current directory, store
  it under the specified `<path>`.

  `--sync`: instead of placing the executable in the current directory, it
  replaces the `fly` command found in your path.  You must have write-access
  to that location for this to succeed.

  `-p <platform>`: explicitly state the platform to use instead of relying on
  the detected platform.  Expects `<platform>` to be one of `darwin`|`mac`,
  `cygwin`|`windows`|`win`, or `linux`.  **Note:** if you're using fly in the Bash
  Shell under Windows 10, specify `linux` as your platform.

* `login` - Authenticates your `fly` CLI to this Concourse deployment,
  creating the `fly` target if necessary, using the same name as this
  environment.  If you used a self-signed certificate, it will use the
  `--skip-ssl-validation` flag automatically.

* `logout` - Will recind the authentication token for this target.

* `fly <cmd> <args...>` - Issue a fly command to this Concourse without
  needing to specify the `-t <target>` argument.  It will even log you in if
  you're not logged in already.



## Examples

To deploy a host Concourse with self-signed certificate, with load-balanced
web nodes and two medium workers in a single availability zone.

```
---
kit:
  name:    concourse
  version: 2.0.0
  features:
  ⦙ - (( replace ))
  ⦙ - full
  ⦙ - self-signed-cert

params:
  env:   mycorp-proto
  vault: mycorp/proto/concourse
  external_domain: 10.200.193.16
  num_web_nodes: 2
  worker_count: 2

  availability_zones: [z1]
  worker_vm_type: medium
```

To deploy a worker pool for an isolated production environment that is hosted
by the above deployment, with bigger workers and more of them:

```
---
kit:
  name:    concourse
  version: 2.0.0
  features:
  ⦙ - (( replace ))
  ⦙ - workers

params:
  env:   mycorp-us-east-prod
  vault: mycorp/us/east/prod/concourse
  tsa_host_env: mycorp-proto
  worker_count: 6
  tags:
    - mycorp-us-east-prod
    - alternative-tag

  availability_zones: [z1]
  worker_vm_type: large
```



## History

2.0.0 - the first version to support Genesis 2.6 hooks and exodus data for addon scripts and `genesis info`.
